\newenvironment{texto}{%
  \begin{center} % so the minipage is centered
  \begin{varwidth}[t]{\textwidth}
  \raggedright % so the minipage's text is left justified
}{%
  \end{varwidth}
  \end{center}
}

\vspace{0.3cm}
%
  \begin{center} % so the minipage is centered
  \begin{varwidth}[t]{\textwidth}
  \raggedright % so the minipage's text is left justified

  \textsc{Student ID:} 1907314\\
  \textsc{Supervisor:} Prof. David Oswald\\
  \textsc{Programme:} 610C - BSc Com Sc w DTP FT DA (PwC)\\
  \textsc{Word Count:} 0
%
  \end{varwidth}
  \end{center}

\vspace{0.8cm}

\begin{abstract}
  Embedded systems utilising microcontrollers are ubiquitous and even connected to the Internet, in everything from watches to washing machines.
  Manufacturers of devices containing microcontrollers typically enable some form of code readout protection to protect their intellectual property, hiding their firmware and disabling a level of debugging access within these microcontrollers.
  Voltage glitching is often a successful fault injection method used to bypass this readout protection and allow an adversary, security researcher or consumer to extract the firmware from the microcontroller's internal memory.

  This report explores how "crowbar" voltage glitches---momentarily shorting the CPU core of a microcontroller to ground---can be used to this effect on members of two families of microcontrollers: Nordic Semiconductor's nRF52 series and Texas Instruments' CC253x/4x series.
  A successful glitch attempt is replicated on the nRF52832, faulting the CRP data and allowing the extraction of firmware.
  Unsuccessful glitch attempts are made on the CC2541---for which there are no crowbar glitches leading to a CRP bypass published at the time of writing---with a repeatable outcome of full flash memory erasure documented.
  A consistent methodology for both glitching attempts is outlined, starting with identifying a suitable glitch width and moving on to describe identifying potential critical sections in power traces.
  Two different glitch generators are used: the Pico Debug'n'Dump and an FPGA-based board using GIAnT, the Generic Implementation Analysis Toolkit.
  Finally, improvements to the ease of use of voltage glitching hardware are proposed; these intend to apply some direction to the problem of making voltage glitching kits more consumer-friendly, increasing the ease with which defunct consumer devices may be repurposed.
\end{abstract}

\newpage
\tableofcontents

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Embedded systems based around microcontroller units (MCUs) are
ubiquitous due to their low cost and versatility when compared to
purpose-built circuits. Microcontroller firmware is often protected from
being read by the consumer with code readout protection (CRP), usually
in the form of disabling debugging access to the microcontroller. This
means that independent security researchers cannot easily extract the
firmware to assess it for security vulnerabilities and consumers of many
Internet of Things (IoT) devices are left with e-waste: devices which
cannot be repurposed if the manufacturer goes bankrupt and can no longer
provide the service they paid for. This service, in the current age of
IoT, is often a webserver which augments or authorises the capabilities
of the embedded system, which would need to be changed if the webserver
goes dark---something which cannot be done if the original firmware
cannot be read and modified.

There are many methods to remedy this problem and allow consumers and
researchers to access the MCU firmware, but this report focuses on a
fault injection method called voltage glitching. Fault injection is an
active implementation attack whereby a fault in the operation of a
computer is caused by putting it under unusual operating conditions.
This fault may then propagate to an observable failure such as skipping
the CRP check of a microcontroller under stress, and enabling its
debugging capabilities when ordinarily they would be disabled. Voltage
glitching is a method of fault injection where a fault is caused by
changing the operating voltage of a device to be outside of its
recommended value.

Voltage glitching was chosen as the area of research as opposed to
invasive implementation attacks and legislative solutions---for example,
forcing manufacturers to publish source code or allow debugging access
to consumers---for the following reasons. Legislative solutions are
slow, expensive and require many people in order for them to gain
traction and, even then, can fail easily. Right to repair, for example,
is a movement that's gained more traction over the last year, but it is
not a new idea. Fault injection methods, on the other hand, can be done
quickly and relatively cheaply by one person; they can be a very
reliable way to change the behaviour of a microcontroller. Voltage
glitching is an inexpensive and quickly repeatable active implementation
attack, especially when compared to invasive implementation attacks such
as using laser or UV-C light to flip bits.

There are a variety of voltage glitching techniques including
overvolting and undervolting, but this report researches the feasibility
of a ``crowbar'' voltage glitch @oflynnFaultInjectionUsing2016 on two
MCUs: Nordic Semiconductor's nRF52832 and Texas Instruments' CC2541. A
crowbar voltage glitch involves momentarily shorting the CPU voltage to
ground in order force the CPU to miscalculate or skip an instruction. In
order to learn more about voltage glitching, the first chip for which a
crowbar glitch to bypass CRP will be attempted is the nRF52832, due to
the existence of documentation relating to executing this type of
glitch. The second experiment will be to apply the same techniques
learned during work on the nRF52832 to the CC2541, to see whether there
is a similar vulnerability present on a microcontroller with a different
CPU core from a different manufacturer. Any methods which bypass CRP are
assumed to also be applicable to the rest of the microcontroller family
of each target: nRF52 and CC253x/4x. This report also outlines ways in
which voltage glitching techniques could be made more accessible to the
consumer who is trying to repurpose defunct hardware with CRP enabled.

\hypertarget{related-work}{%
\subsection{Related work}\label{related-work}}

The nRF52832, used in Apple AirTags, is susceptible to a crowbar glitch
to skip its CRP check, demonstrated by Roth @rothHowAppleAirTags2021.
Roth also cites earlier work from a blog, LimitedResults
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020, which focuses on a similar
system-on-a-chip (SoC), the nRF52840, and presents information from the
nRF52 family in the context of voltage glitching and CRP. Replicating
Roth's and LimitedResults' work is the first experiment of this project
and was used as a framework for learning about many aspects of voltage
glitching for the first time before moving onto a novel experiment:
applying a similar glitch to the Texas Instruments CC2541.

Voltage glitching can also be used in conjunction with binary
analysis---a so-called grey-box approach---on embedded bootloaders
@vandenherrewegenFillYourBoots2020. Although the nRF52832---the target
of this report's first voltage glitch experiment---has a CRP check
before any bootloader (which, if present, would be stored on flash
memory), Van Den Herrewegen et al.~outline voltage glitches on three
different MCUs, which is useful information for learning about voltage
glitching. In the aforementioned paper the GIAnT
@oswaldGiantrevBGIAnTFault is also used for the attacks. GIAnT is used
throughout this report as the primary glitching system for glitching the
nRF52832 and CC2541, although the Pico Debug'n'Dump @rothPicoDebugDump
was also used against the nRF52832 for comparison.

O'Flynn details the application of crowbar circuits---which are used to
short-circuit a component to ground---in voltage glitching methods
@oflynnFaultInjectionUsing2016. Similar to O'Flynn's usage of the
n-channel MOSFET on the ChipWhisperer, both the Pico Debug'n'Dump and
GIAnT boards utilise an n-channel MOSFET in their implementations of a
crowbar circuit.

The exploratory experiments on the CC2541 outlined later in this report
(power analysis, glitching anything to find reasonable parameters, etc.)
were inspired by a glitch campaign carried out by GitHub user
debug-silicon against the SiLabs C8051F340
@debug-siliconSiLabsC8051F34xCode2021. Much like the Texas Instruments
CC2541, the SiLabs C8051F340 is also an 8051-based chip. Methods
outlined by Wouters et al. @woutersSusceptibilityTexasInstruments,
although applied to Texas Instruments microcontrollers based around ARM
Cortex-M CPUs rather than 8051 CPUs, were also helpful in compiling this
report. Reading both of these works also helped in understanding what
often makes a voltage glitch targeting CRP checks possible---neither the
similarities between CPUs or manufacturers, but rather the nature of the
CRP check itself (which could be done outside the CPU) or the copying of
CRP data.

\hypertarget{success-criteria}{%
\subsection{Success criteria}\label{success-criteria}}

The success criteria, or aims of this project, have changed since the
project proposal, but settled on the following:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Replicate the crowbar attack Roth carried out on an nRF52832 on a
  development board @rothHowAppleAirTags2021.
\item
  Add to the knowledge of which chips are vulnerable to crowbar voltage
  glitch attacks.

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Answer whether same crowbar technique applied to the nRF52 series by
    both Roth @rothHowAppleAirTags2021 and LimitedResults
    @limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 could be replicated and
    applied to another family of microcontrollers, the CC253x/4x series
    from Texas Instruments.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  Evaluate how it might be made easier and more reliable to carry out
  crowbar attacks.
\end{itemize}

Previously, this project's success criteria were focused on successfully
glitching and then dumping the firmware of the nRF52832 and, later, the
CC2541. In contrast, the bullet points above are more learning-oriented,
focusing on investigation and the various activities that need to be
executed to find a voltage glitch vulnerability, should one exist.

\hypertarget{replicating-a-crowbar-attack-on-the-nrf52832}{%
\section{Replicating a crowbar attack on the
nRF52832}\label{replicating-a-crowbar-attack-on-the-nrf52832}}

The nRF52832 is a member of the nRF52 series from Nordic Semiconductor,
a series based around the ARM Cortex-M4 processor and a 2.4GHz
transceiver. This section outlines a successful attempt at replicating
the crowbar voltage glitch attack on the nRF52832---initially
demonstrated by Roth @rothHowAppleAirTags2021---to fault its CRP check
and allow debugging access in the serial bootloader. Roth showed how the
nRF52832 could be glitched in situ on the AirTag PCB and built on the
efforts of LimitedResults @limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 who
used the nRF52840, but the following experiment aims to glitch the
nRF52832 on a development board. It is likely that, due to the
similarities in features, processors and memory layouts, a voltage
glitch which allows CRP bypass on one member of the nRF52 series is also
applicable, with little to no adjustments, to any other member of the
nRF52 series of microcontrollers. These similarities are why
LimitedResults' method can also be applied to the nRF52832.

Without a background in electronics and fault injection, the
reproduction of Roth's and LimitedResults' experiments proved to be a
learning experience. This process would go on to provide knowledge and
practise in preparation for investigating whether similar attacks would
be possible on the CC2541.

\hypertarget{glitch-method}{%
\subsection{Glitch method}\label{glitch-method}}

The glitch method for nRF52 microcontrollers, similar to the method
outlined by LimitedResults @limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020, is
to:

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Power on the microcontroller.
\item
  Wait until the memory controller starts transferring the user
  information configuration register values---including APPROTECT, the
  value of which determines whether the debug access port is
  protected---to the core. This time period is called the \emph{glitch
  offset}.
\item
  Short the CPU power to ground for a time period, the \emph{glitch
  width}.
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{generic-setup}{%
\subsubsection{Generic setup}\label{generic-setup}}

Before using a glitch generator such as the Pico Debug'n'Dump or GIAnT,
it is important to identify which pins will need to be accessed for the
experiment. The following pins must be identified on the target:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Power supply and ground connections because the microcontroller needs
  to be powered and operational while glitching.
\item
  Debug access pins, for dumping firmware and sending other commands to
  the target.
\item
  A decoupling circuit for the target, if not glitching the power supply
  voltage.
\end{itemize}

A general purpose computer is used to configure the glitch parameters on
the glitch generator and communicate with the nRF52832 over a debugging
interface---in the case of the nRF52832, an ST-LINK V2, connected over
USB to the general purpose computer.

\hypertarget{benchmarking-a-successful-glitch}{%
\subsubsection{Benchmarking a successful
glitch}\label{benchmarking-a-successful-glitch}}

Before running a glitch campaign against the nRF52832, the following
console command is used while the nRF52832 is connected to the general
purpose computer over an ST-LINK V2. This command enables CRP by writing
\texttt{0x01} to the user information configuration register (UICR)
APPROTECT, which is used to enable access port protection, disabling
debug access. Any value other than 0xFF will enable the protection.

\begin{verbatim}
openocd -f interface/stlink.cfg \
  -f target/nrf52.cfg \
  -c 'init;halt;flash fillw 0x10001208 0xFFFFFF00 0x01;exit'
\end{verbatim}

A crowbar glitch applied to the CPU of the nRF52832 which causes a
bypass of CRP is considered a successful glitch. This is checked using
the following command:

\begin{verbatim}
openocd -f interface/stlink.cfg \
  -f target/nrf52.cfg \
  -c 'init;dump_image nrf52_dump.bin 0x0 0x1000;exit'
\end{verbatim}

This command reads the flash memory and code RAM contents to
\texttt{nrf52\_dump.bin}, and unlike in Roth's example
@rothAirtagglitcher2021, the command was always found to be successful
even if CRP was still enabled. There is still hope however, because
\texttt{nrf52\_dump.bin} will start with a certain sequence if the
binary is empty, indicating that CRP is still enabled. This sequence,
\texttt{b"\textbackslash{}x00\textbackslash{}x00\textbackslash{}x00\#"}
when matched in Python, is checked against the first four bytes of
\texttt{nrf52\_dump.bin} and if it doesn't exist, CRP is disabled and
real flash memory has been dumped.

\hypertarget{modifications}{%
\subsubsection{Modifications}\label{modifications}}

A number of wires needed to be attached to the nRF52832 development
board for easy connection to other jumper wires. These wires had to be
connected to the following pins on the nRF52832 chip itself:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  VDD: Power supply
\item
  VSS: Ground
\item
  SWDCLK: Serial wire debug clock input, for debugging
\item
  SWDIO: Serial wire debug I/O, for debugging
\item
  DEC1: \(0.9V\) digital supply decoupling (CPU voltage regulator)
\end{itemize}

Identifying which pins these are requires referring to the nRF52832
Product Specification and using a multimeter to find the development
board pins they are attached to. The pins on the nRF52832 development
board were too narrow and close together for any of the jumper wires
available, so jumper wires were cut and soldered onto them for easier
access.

Glitching the CPU voltage regulator decoupling circuit allows an
attacker to specifically target the CPU, rather than the full system,
which prevents the glitch being ``absorbed'' by other circuitry. The
decoupling capacitor was also removed from the DEC1, to prevent damping
of the glitch and the traces when reading the oscilloscope.

\hypertarget{using-pico-debugndump}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Using Pico
Debug'n'Dump\label{section_nrf52832_debugndump}}{Using Pico Debug'n'Dump}}\label{using-pico-debugndump}}

The video demonstrating the nRF52832 glitch, uploaded by Roth
@rothHowAppleAirTags2021, introduces the Pico Debug'n'Dump, a \$25
commercially available device Roth created to make crowbar voltage
glitching cheaper and easier.

The glitching application Roth published @rothAirtagglitcher2021 was
flashed to the Debug'n'Dump by the general purpose computer. Below is a
table of the wiring setup.

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}llll@{}}
\toprule
Debug'n'Dump & nRF52832 & ST-LINK & Description \\
\midrule
\endhead
Trig & VDD & & Supplies nRF52832 with 3.3V \\
Glitch & DEC1 & & For shorting the CPU \\
GND & GND & & Grounds the nRF52832 \\
& SWDIO & SWDIO & Serial wire debug I/O \\
& SWCLK & SWCLK & Serial wire clock input from ST-LINK \\
\bottomrule
\end{longtable}

The first run didn't seem to have any effect on the nRF52832, but an
oscilloscope wasn't available for troubleshooting at the time. After
acquiring an oscilloscope and connecting it to the Glitch-DEC1 wire, it
was observed that there was only a small pulse happening on DEC1 at the
glitch offset; the short circuit wasn't being applied. An issue was
created on the airtag-glitcher GitHub repo documenting these findings
@GlitchPinNot.

It was established during communication on the GitHub issue that there
was a manufacturing issue with some Debug'n'Dump units, where a
pull-down resistor for the Glitch pin was rated at \(10k \Omega\) rather
than \(100 \Omega\), preventing the short circuit from being applied.
This resistor could be removed due to the fact that the Pico pins are
internally pulled down; it was redundant. In the meantime, the approach
had changed to use GIAnT, an FPGA-based glitching board and
implementation analysis toolkit, to replicate the attack. Returning to
the Debug'n'Dump---after succeeding with GIAnT---and removing its
redundant resistor fixed the issue and not only was the short circuit of
DEC1 clearly visible on an oscilloscope, but CRP was bypassed within a
few minutes.

\hypertarget{using-giant}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Using
GIAnT\label{section_nrf52832_giant}}{Using GIAnT}}\label{using-giant}}

GIAnT, an implementation analysis toolkit based around an FPGA board
@oswaldGiantrevBGIAnTFault, was used as the glitch generator for
attacking the nRF52832 after experimenting with the Pico Debug'n'Dump.
Boards used by GIAnT are custom and cannot currently be found
commercially; the one used in this experiment extends the ZTEX USB-FPGA
Module 2.04, which costs €129 alone. The GIAnT board used for this
experiment didn't originally have a transistor soldered to it (but had
the solder pads available) for the purposes of a crowbar circuit, so a
MOSFET had to be added to the trace leading to pin T1, along with the
capability to use it in the FPGA bytestream.

Wiring the nRF52832 to the GIAnT is similar to the Pico Debug'n'Dump
configuration: VDD on the MCU is plugged into the DAC output on the
GIAnT and DEC1 is wired to T1 on the GIAnT for the CPU crowbar.

After flashing the firmware to the GIAnT development board, a Python
library is used to interact with the board over USB and configure DAC
voltage and the glitching parameters: the pin address for triggering the
glitch, the glitch offset and the glitch width.

The application @rudmanNRF52832FullGIAnT configures the GIAnT board to
keep shorting the nRF52832's CPU to ground momentarily at an increasing
offset and with multiple pulse widths, to increase the likelihood of
finding a successful glitch---that is, a glitch causing the bypass of
CRP. The initial offset is configured to be immediately before the
critical section (see ``Finding a suitable glitch offset''). Once there
is a glitch success---defined as the firmware read command being allowed
by the MCU---the application on the controlling computer stops running,
and a dump of the nRF52832's firmware is left in the working directory.

\hypertarget{finding-a-suitable-glitch-width}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Finding a suitable glitch
width\label{section_nrf52832_suitable_width}}{Finding a suitable glitch width}}\label{finding-a-suitable-glitch-width}}

Although the parameters will change, a suitable minimum glitch width
should be found. This is defined in this case as the smallest glitch
width at which a CPU instruction will be skipped or miscalculated. If
the glitch width is too small, there is a chance that it will have no
effect (or is too small for the glitch generator), but if it is too
large, the microcontroller might reset or the CPU might not start up
again.

On each iteration, the glitch width is increased by \(10ns\) to increase
the likelihood of a successful glitch, should it require a longer glitch
width. The difference between the smallest and largest glitch width is
not large, because it could extend runtime unnecessarily, given the fact
that the minimum glitch width should already reliably glitch a test
application.

This step can also be used to diagnose any problems with the glitching
setup because in most cases where the CPU voltage is glitched, a fault
should occur in the execution of the running application. O'Flynn uses a
\texttt{for} loop containing a counter incrementation, nested in another
\texttt{for} loop, to show how the counter incrementation is skipped
when both loops are complete and the counter is printed
@oflynnFaultInjectionUsing2016. Due to the added complexity of relying
on printing to a buffer---requiring some use of another serial
connection in this case---a simple GPIO pin toggling application was
used and an oscilloscope was connected to that pin to observe the effect
of a glitch @rudmanNRF52832BlinkPin. Normal operation of this
application is shown in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_blink_no_glitch}.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_blink_no_glitch.png}
\caption{The pin toggling application functioning normally, with no
glitch. Trace 1 (yellow) is the CPU core voltage and trace 2 (blue) is
the pin being toggled by the application. Trigger \emph{T} points to the
moment the nRF52832 becomes
powered.\label{img_nrf52832_blink_no_glitch}}
\end{figure}

After creating a simple script to try a given glitch width over a rough
range of offsets @rudmanNRF52832MinimumGlitch, the script was run
against the nRF52832 running its pin toggling application. Manually
increasing the value of \texttt{width} in the script from \(10ns\)---the
GIAnT board cannot produce glitches shorter than \(10ns\)---showed that
the minimum glitch width to successfully fault the CPU execution, at
least in the case of application execution, is \(50ns\), as shown in
figure \ref{img_nrf52832_blink_glitch}. The result of the fault is that
the application jumps out of the \texttt{while} loop altogether, even at
different offsets. This could be due to skipping a jump instruction, but
it is likely that the fault occurs during the 5ms delay routine---which
doesn't just use \texttt{NOP}s in the case of the nRF52832---and jumps
out of it, especially because the glitch will work at many offsets. At
widths as large as \(140ns\), the CPU would permanently fail until the
next reset, as shown in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_blink_permafail}.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_blink_glitch.png}
\caption{The pin toggling application being faulted, with a \(50ns\)
glitch applied to the CPU core at trigger \emph{T}. Trace 1 (yellow) is
the CPU core voltage and trace 2 (blue) is the pin being toggled by the
application. Normal operation shown in figure
\ref{img_nrf52832_blink_no_glitch}.\label{img_nrf52832_blink_glitch}}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_blink_permafail.png}
\caption{The pin toggling application being faulted, with a \(140ns\)
glitch applied to the CPU core at trigger \emph{T}, causing the CPU to
permanently fail until next reset. Trace 1 (yellow) is the CPU core
voltage and trace 2 (blue) is the pin being toggled by the application.
Normal operation shown in figure
\ref{img_nrf52832_blink_no_glitch}.\label{img_nrf52832_blink_permafail}}
\end{figure}

Later investigation has found that a width of \(50ns\) is typically too
short to reliably fault the NVMC activity and therefore the CRP, and
glitch widths as large as \(180ns\) do not cause the CPU to permanently
fail until reset when targeting the critical section. This is why it is
important to cycle through a number of glitch widths when approaching a
critical section.

After applying a successful glitch (see section
\ref{section_nrf52832_observations}), widths for 399 successful glitches
were recorded and the proportion of glitch successes for each glitch
width is shown in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_offset_vs_success}. A
successful glitch is a glitch on the NVMC activity outlined in section
\ref{section_nrf52832_suitable_offset} which bypasses CRP and allows the
firmware to be dumped. Figure \ref{img_nrf52832_width_vs_success} shows
that the optimal glitch width is between \(80ns\) and \(120ns\). It's
important, for future glitch campaigns on the nRF52832 CPU core using a
crowbar technique, that the glitch width range used is reduced to this
identified range because it can reduce the time needed for a successful
glitch. Although there have been successes outside of the \(80-120ns\)
range, successful glitches can still be made more likely in the
\(80-120ns\) range by repeating with the same parameters, which is
especially useful at counteracting jitter.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_width_vs_success.png}
\caption{Glitch width vs.~proportion of successes (out of 399 successes)
for the nRF52832.\label{img_nrf52832_width_vs_success}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{finding-a-suitable-glitch-offset}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Finding a suitable glitch
offset\label{section_nrf52832_suitable_offset}}{Finding a suitable glitch offset}}\label{finding-a-suitable-glitch-offset}}

The glitch offset for the nRF52832 is the amount of time after supplying
power to its development board until the glitch is applied. In practise,
this makes it the amount of time until immediately before the start of
the critical section to make sure a glitching opportunity isn't missed
and to compensate for any jitter (the critical section occurring earlier
or later on the next power cycle).

Because this experiment was carried out to replicate work by Limited
Results @limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 and Roth
@rothHowAppleAirTags2021 and apply a successful glitch, the focus was to
find the same critical sections that they have highlighted in their
work. For example, LimitedResults identified the section of non-volatile
memory controller (NVMC) activity in figure
\ref{img_nrf52832_limitedresults_crit_section}, before the CPU core
voltage drops and execution of the application starts
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020. This NVMC activity, according
to LimitedResults, is likely to contain the transfer of user information
configuration register (UICR) data, including the CRP value APPROTECT,
to the CPU core. A similar section was identified for the nRF52832 and
has been highlighted in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_no_zoom},
and is shown, zoomed-in, in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_zoom}.
The noise present in figures \ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_no_zoom} and
\ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_zoom} is due to the nRF52832 VDD being
connected to the GIAnT DAC, rather than the ST-LINK V2.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_crit_section_no_zoom_highlight.png}
\caption{Red box highlighting critical section after nRF52832 power-on.
Trace 1 (yellow) is the CPU core voltage, trace 2 (blue) is the voltage
of VDD, trace 3 (purple) is the pin being toggled by the application on
the nRF52832.\label{img_nrf52832_crit_section_no_zoom}}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_crit_section_zoom_highlight.png}
\caption{Zoomed-in version of the traces in figure
\ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_no_zoom}. Critical section (NVMC
activity) highlighted in red box.\label{img_nrf52832_crit_section_zoom}}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_limitedresults_crit_section.png}
\caption{Screenshot of the nRF52840 critical section, captured by
LimitedResults @limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020. Trace 2 (light
blue) is the CPU core voltage at DEC1 and trace 4 (dark blue) is the
system power voltage at DEC4. Compare with figure
\ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_zoom}.\label{img_nrf52832_limitedresults_crit_section}}
\end{figure}

This critical section lasts for about \(2\mu s\), although glitches are
usually successful in the later part of the critical section. To account
for jitter---the changing location of the critical section between power
cycles---the glitch offset can be said to start at \(1029\mu s\) after
supplying power to the nRF52832, and increase by \(1\mu s\) until
\(1044\mu s\). The offsets for 399 successful glitches were recorded and
the proportion of glitch successes for each glitch offset is shown in
figure \ref{img_nrf52832_offset_vs_success}.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_offset_vs_success.png}
\caption{Glitch offset vs.~proportion of successes (out of 399
successes) for the nRF52832.\label{img_nrf52832_offset_vs_success}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{observations}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Observations\label{section_nrf52832_observations}}{Observations}}\label{observations}}

A script @rudmanNRF52832FullGIAnT was written to control the GIAnT board
using the parameters discussed in sections
\ref{section_cc2541_suitable_width} and
\ref{section_nrf52832_suitable_offset}. The finalised code for this
script iterates over an offset range of \(1027\mu s - 1100\mu s\) at an
interval of \(1\mu s\) and over a width range of \(50ns - 200ns\) at an
interval of \(10ns\). The reason for the large offset range is that over
the course of a few months, the critical section has been at varying
offsets; successful glitches months apart have occurred at offsets of
\(1029\mu s - 1045\mu s\), \(1057\mu s\) during project demonstration
week and \(1071\mu s\) in December.

Using the aforementioned script, a successful glitch was achieved and an
example is shown in figure \ref{img_nrf52832_successful}. Compare this
to figure \ref{img_nrf52832_crit_section_zoom}; notice how the CPU core
voltage does not drop after the glitch. LimitedResults calls the CRP
check a ``pure hardware process'' due to the absence of boot ROM
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020, but the successful glitch
seems to also bypass the whole section of slightly dropped voltage
before the voltage drops more steeply for application execution. There
is no mention of boot ROM---where code will be retrieved from and
executed by the CPU---in the user guide but the lack of a voltage drop
after the successful glitch looks more like a branch, and thus a section
of code, has been skipped. Much of this can only be speculation, without
details provided by the manufacturer.

If some of the Pico Debug'n'Dump shipments had not had the resistor
specification issue mentioned in section
\ref{section_nrf52832_debugndump}, a successful crowbar voltage glitch
would have been much more quickly and cheaply attained. On the other
hand, focusing on using GIAnT allowed the development and testing of
dormant crowbar glitch capabilities, which proved equally useful in
replicating glitch attacks on nRF52 MCUs by LimitedResults
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 and Roth
@rothHowAppleAirTags2021.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/nrf52832_successful.png}
\caption{A successful glitch on the nRF52832. Trace 1 (yellow) is the
CPU core voltage through DEC1 and trace 2 (blue) is the system voltage.
\label{img_nrf52832_successful}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{cc2541-glitch-attempts}{%
\section{CC2541 glitch attempts}\label{cc2541-glitch-attempts}}

The CC2541 microcontroller sits within Texas Instruments' CC253x/4x
line-up of SoCs, which are all based on a modified 8051 microcontroller,
differing from the nRF52832 which uses an ARM Cortex-M4. The main
difference between the CC253x and CC254x series is that CC253x SoCs are
intended for applications which implement IEEE 802.15.4-based protocols
and the CC254x series is intended for bluetooth low-energy applications.
As previously stated, the CC2541 is based around a different processor
than the nRF52832, but the two chips are similar in that they don't
contain boot ROM; there's no read-only bootloader by default on either
of the devices. This means that, for a crowbar glitch applied to the CPU
to be successful, there needs to be some handling of the CRP data by the
CPU.

There were three lessons learned during the nRF52832 glitch attempts,
which informed the exploratory glitch campaign on the CC2541:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  When looking for a suitable glitch offset, use an oscilloscope from
  the beginning; study the power traces for notable features when using
  the SoC for various activities, especially immediately after reset and
  power-on. This is known generally as simple power analysis (SPA).
\item
  Read the data sheet and user guide more thoroughly before attempting a
  voltage glitch, especially for information about bootloaders, which
  have logic commonly executed by the CPU and as a result can be
  glitched using the crowbar technique on the CPU decoupling circuit.
\item
  Use the debugging interface to get used to reading the flash contents
  from the target and define a benchmark against which to check whether
  CRP is still enabled.
\end{itemize}

These learning outcomes encouraged a deeper analysis of how the SoC or
microcontroller functions \emph{before} leaving the glitch generator
running to brute-force search the glitch parameter space.

\hypertarget{modifications-1}{%
\subsection{Modifications}\label{modifications-1}}

The CC2541 is similar to the nRF52832 in that it also has a digital
supply decoupling pin, DCOUPL, for use with a decoupling capacitor.
Decoupling capacitors are intended to smooth out any sudden changes in
voltage, so it's important that the decoupling capacitors are removed in
order to see useful voltage traces when using an oscilloscope, and
because they might prevent a successful voltage glitch. See figure
\ref{img_cc2541_cap_comparison} for a comparison of DCOUPL traces before
and after removing the decoupling capacitor. Initially the removal of
the capacitor connected to DCOUPL was neglected and the voltage trace on
DCOUPL looked very featureless; voltage trace readings were repeated
after removing it.

For easy connection to jumper wires and oscilloscope probes, wires were
connected to the following areas on the CC2541 development board:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  VDD: Power supply---there was already a header pin for this
\item
  GND: Ground---there was already a header pin for this
\item
  DD: Debug data pin, for debugging
\item
  DC: Debug clock pin, for debugging
\item
  RESET\_N: Reset pin, for debugging
\item
  DCOUPL: \(1.8V\) digital supply decoupling circuit
\end{itemize}

For all pins other than VDD and GND, a solder pad on the development
board was used to reduce mechanical strain on the chip legs, requiring
continuity testing between legs and pads. DCOUPL was only one decoupling
circuit listed in the data sheet, so it was assumed that if a successful
crowbar voltage glitch would be possible, it would be on DCOUPL due to
the lack of alternatives.

\begin{figure}
  \begin{center}
      \input{res/capacitor_comparison.pgf}
  \end{center}
  \caption{A comparison of the DCOUPL power trace before (orange, bottom) and after (blue, top) removing the decoupling capacitor connected to DCOUPL. Captured at $250MSa/s$.\label{img_cc2541_cap_comparison}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{wiring}{%
\subsection{Wiring}\label{wiring}}

After soldering work to attach jumper wires, the following connections
were made between the GIAnT board, the CC2541 development board and the
CC Debugger. The CC Debugger is required for debugging and flashing, due
to the lack of bootloader and reliance on proprietary debugging
circuits. It can be seen as taking the place of the ST-LINK V2 from the
nRF52832 glitch campaign.

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 6\tabcolsep) * \real{0.18}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 6\tabcolsep) * \real{0.13}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 6\tabcolsep) * \real{0.17}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 6\tabcolsep) * \real{0.51}}@{}}
\toprule
\begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
GIAnT
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
CC2541
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
CC Debugger
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Description
\end{minipage} \\
\midrule
\endhead
DAC out & VDD & SENSE & Supplies CC2541 with \(3.3V\) and the CC
Debugger senses it \\
T1 & DCOUPL & & Applies the glitch \\
GND & GND & GND & Grounds the CC2541 \\
& DD & DD & Debug data connection \\
& DC & DC & Debug clock connection \\
GPIO1\_6 & RESET\_N & RST & Allows the CC Debugger to reset CC2541 and
GIAnT to sense it \\
\bottomrule
\end{longtable}

Initially, the CC2541 was powered exclusively by the CC Debugger, with
DCOUPL and RESET\_N being connected to the GIAnT from the CC2541. This
was done so the CC Debugger could have full control over the CC2541,
while allowing GIAnT to trigger when RESET\_N was pulled high. After
unsuccessful glitch attempts during and after reset it became apparent
that it would be impossible, in this configuration, to apply a glitch
after powering on the CC2541---like the nRF52832 attack---because VDD
would always remain high if powered by the CC Debugger. The finalised
configuration in the table above allows the GIAnT to power up or down
the CC2541, while allowing the CC Debugger to reset the CC2541. Even
though power is supplied by the GIAnT DAC, the CC Debugger still needs
to be connected with the SENSE pin---used when power is supplied to the
target by another device---in order to preserve debugging functionality.
When the target is being supplied with power by another device, the
power supply on the CC Debugger breakout board must be turned off.

Preserving debugging functionality required the following connections to
be present for the CC Debugger:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  VDD or SENSE
\item
  GND
\item
  DD
\item
  DC
\item
  RST
\end{itemize}

As long as SENSE is high (i.e.~GIAnT DAC is supplying power to CC2541)
when the CC Debugger is first manually reset with its reset button and
is high when CC Debugger next communicates with the CC2541, the CC
Debugger will correctly interface with the CC2541.

\hypertarget{glitch-experiments-plan}{%
\subsection{Glitch experiments plan}\label{glitch-experiments-plan}}

For the CC2541, the CRP data is stored as a ``debug lock bit'': bit 127
(zero-indexed) in the ``upper available flash page'', according to the
user guide. The following experiments will be attempted:

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Try to glitch a simple application while it's running on the CC2541 to
  find suitable parameters.
\item
  Use simple power analysis (SPA) to look for potential critical
  sections---areas where a voltage glitch might cause a CRP bypass.
\item
  Attempt to glitch the potential critical sections using parameters
  found in experiment 1.
\item
  If experiment 3 is unsuccessful, apply differential power analysis
  (DPA) to look for more definitive critical sections to glitch.
\end{enumerate}

Differential power analysis has been placed last in the list of
experiments due to its time-consuming nature; thousands of traces need
to be recorded from the oscilloscope, which also must be interfaced with
the general purpose computer.

\hypertarget{benchmarking-a-successful-glitch-1}{%
\subsubsection{Benchmarking a successful
glitch}\label{benchmarking-a-successful-glitch-1}}

When setting up the CC2541 for a CRP bypass glitch campaign, the console
command \texttt{cc-tool\ -e\ -f\ -w\ application.bin} erases the flash
and writes a test application \texttt{application.bin} to it, in fast
mode. The command \texttt{cc-tool\ -l\ debug} enables the debug lock
bit, enforcing CRP by disabling most debugging functionality, including
reading the flash memory to retrieve the application.

A crowbar glitch on DCOUPL which causes a bypass of CRP is considered a
successful glitch. In the glitch helper applications
{[}@rudmanCC2541CommandTriggeredGlitch; @rudmanCC2541ColdBoot{]}, which
control the GIAnT board, CRP is considered to be disabled if, and only
if, the output from the console command
\texttt{cc-tool\ -f\ -r\ dump.bin\ -\/-log} contains ``Reading flash''.
Otherwise CRP is assumed to still be enabled. The flag \texttt{-\/-log}
is useful for printing more detailed log messages if there is any
unusual response (an example log for CRP enabled is listed in appendix
\ref{appendix_crp_enabled} and a log for CRP disabled is listed in
appendix \ref{appendix_crp_disabled}), such as an exception or the text
``Target is locked'' is not in the output. If
\texttt{cc-tool\ -f\ -r\ dump.bin\ -\/-log} succeeds and CRP is disabled
then the contents of the flash memory are read into \texttt{dump.bin} in
the working directory. If \texttt{dump.bin} is the same as the
application written to flash memory before the glitch campaign, the
flash memory has been preserved throughout the glitch attempts, and the
glitch is considered successful.

\hypertarget{finding-a-suitable-glitch-width-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Finding a suitable glitch
width\label{section_cc2541_suitable_width}}{Finding a suitable glitch width}}\label{finding-a-suitable-glitch-width-1}}

The reasoning behind finding a suitable minimum glitch width is outlined
in section \ref{section_nrf52832_suitable_width}. Much like the code
written for finding the minimum glitch width for the nRF52832, a test
application was written to toggle a pin on the CC2541 at \(5ms\)
intervals @rudmanCC2541BlinkPin, and a script was created for using the
GIAnT board to glitch the CC2541 at an increasing offset
@rudmanCC2541MinimumGlitch. The pin toggling application is configured
to toggle pin 0.2 on the CC2541, which is connected to a header pin on
its development board labelled ``state''. The first two pin toggles are
only \(1ms\) apart to show more clearly when the application starts.
Normal operation of the pin toggling application is shown in figure
\ref{img_cc2541_blink_no_glitch}.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/cc2541_blink_no_glitch.png}
\caption{The CC2541 pin toggling application without a glitch. Trace 1
(yellow): DCOUPL, trace 2 (light blue): RESET\_N, trace 3 (purple):
STATE on the development board (the pin being toggled), trace 4 (dark
blue): Debug Data. \label{img_cc2541_blink_no_glitch}}
\end{figure}

Due to the use of \texttt{NOP}s in the \texttt{delay\_ms} function
written by Grapsus @grapsusCc254xSdcc for the CC2541 and used by the
application, most offsets will not show a discernible glitch outcome,
unlike for the nRF52832. This means that, unless the glitch occurs
within a single clock cycle, or about \(31ns\), before the ``state'' pin
toggles, the trace will continue to look like the application is running
as expected, because only a \texttt{NOP} or two are skipped. The most
that will happen is that the next pin toggle may come a couple of cycles
sooner, which isn't very visible. Glitching within a cycle or two before
the ``state'' pin toggles does however show a successful glitch in the
application, seen in figure \ref{img_cc2541_blink_glitch}. The smallest
glitch width for a successful glitch to the pin toggling application was
\(50ns\). \(80ns\) is the maximum glitch width before the
microcontroller resets, as seen in figure \ref{img_cc2541_blink_reset},
where a \(90ns\) width was used. The initialisation pattern is visible
in trace 1 (DCOUPL) in figure \ref{img_cc2541_blink_reset} and figure
\ref{img_cc2541_blink_no_glitch}, which shows the same pattern when
powered on.

The reason there are no success rates listed is because the success of
each glitch can't easily be determined for the test application (pin
toggling) and there was no success with a CRP bypass to be measured.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/cc2541_blink_glitch.png}
\caption{The CC2541 pin toggling application with a \(50ns\) crowbar
glitch at trigger \emph{T}, causing the pin toggle instruction to be
skipped and the STATE pin remains high for another \(5ms\). Trace 1
(yellow): DCOUPL, trace 2 (light blue): RESET\_N, trace 3 (purple):
STATE on the development board (the pin being toggled).
\label{img_cc2541_blink_glitch}}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/cc2541_blink_reset.png}
\caption{The CC2541 pin toggling application with a \(90ns\) crowbar
glitch at trigger \emph{T}, causing a reset, visible in the pattern in
trace 1 and the initial \(1ms\) pin toggle in trace 3, at the start of
the application. Trace 1 (yellow): DCOUPL, trace 2 (light blue):
RESET\_N, trace 3 (purple): STATE on the development board (the pin
being toggled), trace 4 (dark blue): Debug Data.
\label{img_cc2541_blink_reset}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{finding-a-suitable-glitch-offset-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Finding a suitable glitch
offset\label{section_cc2541_suitable_offset}}{Finding a suitable glitch offset}}\label{finding-a-suitable-glitch-offset-1}}

Generally speaking, potential critical sections for bypassing CRP are
found before the application starts running. This is because, even
without boot ROM, any CRP check or movement of CRP data to the CPU is an
initialisation step, which would need to occur before normal CPU
execution and potential debug connection.

In order to identify these potential critical sections and infer more
about how the CC2541 works, an oscilloscope was connected to measure the
voltages of DCOUPL, VDD, RESET\_N and the state pin used by the pin
toggling application. The voltage traces should be analysed during the
most likely areas in which a CRP check might exist:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  powering on the CC2541 (cold boot, figure
  \ref{img_cc2541_blink_no_glitch}) or after reset;
\item
  debugging communication using \texttt{cc-tool} from the general
  purpose computer with the CC Debugger (figure
  \ref{img_cc2541_debugging}).
\end{itemize}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=4.16667in,height=\textheight]{res/cc2541_basic_info_debug.png}
\caption{Using \texttt{cc-tool} to read basic info about the CC2541:
what its debug status is and its name and flags. Trace 1 (yellow):
DCOUPL, trace 2 (light blue): RESET\_N, trace 3 (purple): STATE on the
development board (the pin being toggled), trace 4 (dark blue): Debug
Data. \label{img_cc2541_debugging}}
\end{figure}

In figure \ref{img_cc2541_debugging}, it can be seen that before and
after every debugging command is sent to the CC2541 by the CC Debugger,
RESET\_N is held low while two falling edge transitions are forced on
Debug Clock. It can be assumed that after every reset out of debug mode,
the CC2541 MCU reinitialises and CRP data is moved from flash again, if
it is read by the CPU at all. This is a fair assumption because setting
the debug lock with \texttt{cc-tool\ -\/-lock\ debug} enables CRP for
all subsequent debug commands, as seen below.

\begin{verbatim}
$ cc-tool -r out.bin
  Programmer: CC Debugger
  Target: CC2540
  Target is locked.
  No operations allowed on locked target without erasing
\end{verbatim}

In order to check whether a glitch has been successful at bypassing CRP,
a non-error response from \texttt{cc-tool} which does not contain
``Target is locked'' is used as the benchmark in the GIAnT scripts
{[}@rudmanCC2541CommandTriggeredGlitch; @rudmanCC2541ColdBoot{]}. Unless
the area of memory containing the debug lock bit is permanently
changed---something not likely with a crowbar glitch on the CPU---any
outcome from a glitch before \texttt{cc-tool} is used will be reverted
by the reset before each debug command, which includes the check to see
whether the glitch has been successful. Therefore any glitch on a cold
boot is unlikely to bypass CRP in a meaningful way, because checking the
debug lock bit will reset the chip and re-enable the CRP.

The result of this is that the best chance of a successful glitch on CRP
is during the time from the reset before the debug command is sent to
the CC2541, until the debug command is processed by the CC2541. This is
the period of time between trigger \emph{T} on figure
\ref{img_cc2541_debugging} and \(8ms\) later.

\hypertarget{glitch-attempts}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Glitch
attempts\label{section_cc2541_glitch_attempts}}{Glitch attempts}}\label{glitch-attempts}}

Before carrying out differential power analysis (DPA), glitch attempts
were made across the offset space outlined in section
\ref{section_cc2541_suitable_offset}, cold boot and during and
immediately after a debugging-triggered reset. Glitch attempts were made
using GIAnT interface scripts on both the reset caused by debugging
command execution @rudmanCC2541CommandTriggeredGlitch and cold boot
@rudmanCC2541ColdBoot. Both scripts cycled, for every glitch offset,
through glitch widths of \(50ns\) to \(80ns\) at \(10ns\) intervals,
based on the findings presented in section
\ref{section_cc2541_suitable_width} and repeated each glitch width 2
times.

Debugging command-triggered glitches were triggered by falling edge
transitions on RESET\_N, connected to GPIO1\_6 on the GIAnT board. The
actual crowbar glitches were applied at offsets ranging from \(1\mu s\)
to \(8.1ms\) at intervals of \(0.5\mu s\) after the trigger (reset being
pulled low), in order to attempt glitches during both reset and debug
command handling. Cold boot-triggered glitches were triggered by
enabling the DAC on the GIAnT board, supplying VDD on the CC2541, and
glitches were applied at offsets ranging from \(100\mu s\) to
\(700\mu s\) at intervals of \(0.5\mu s\) after the trigger (CC2541
receiving power). Glitching on a cold boot---not during the reset and
subsequent debug communication---was never likely to produce a CRP
bypass, as described in section \ref{section_cc2541_suitable_offset},
but was carried out as a fallback after glitching during debug
communication didn't produce a CRP bypass.

For all of the offsets at which a glitch was applied, no CRP bypass was
achieved. There were two times at which the microcontroller didn't reset
and there was no ``Target is locked'' message, but neither of these were
a CRP bypass. Neither of these outcomes happened on a cold boot glitch
described occurred on a cold boot glitch.

\hypertarget{outcome-corrupted-debug-status}{%
\subsubsection{Outcome: Corrupted debug
status}\label{outcome-corrupted-debug-status}}

The first time time there was no ``Target is locked'' message was when
the glitch was applied during debug communications (after RESET\_N has
been pulled high again and during Debug Data activity); the
\texttt{cc-tool} logs show that glitches during debug communications
often cause the response or the processing of a request to be corrupted.
Notice, in the log message in appendix
\ref{appendix_corrupted_debug_status}, the following lines:

\begin{verbatim}
[21.02 13:29:34:99695] programmer, debug status, 00h
[21.02 13:29:34:99695] programmer, halt failed
\end{verbatim}

See how the debug status returned is \texttt{00h} and not \texttt{26h}
(CRP enabled) or \texttt{22h} (CRP disabled). When glitching around the
time of this USB read, the value sent back to the CC Debugger can be
corrupted and be any other value. This isn't helpful, because even if it
is corrupted to \texttt{22h}, that doesn't mean that CRP has actually
been disabled for subsequent flash reads, only that the message has been
corrupted.

\hypertarget{outcome-erased-flash}{%
\subsubsection{Outcome: Erased flash}\label{outcome-erased-flash}}

The second time \texttt{cc-tool} did not print a ``Target is locked''
message after glitching was also when the glitch was applied during
debug communications, specifically around the section of activity on
trace 4 (Debug Data) and marked by trigger \emph{T} in figure
\ref{img_cc2541_glitch_success}. CRP was only disabled at the expense of
erasing the flash, which defeats the purpose of the attack because the
flash containing the original application can't then be dumped. Figure
\ref{img_cc2541_glitch_success} shows that after the second time
RESET\_N is pulled low, the pin toggling application doesn't start
again. Future power cycles also don't restart the pin toggling
application and the device remains unlocked, and any dump of the flash
produces an empty binary.

There are two possible reasons that this happened. The first is that
repeated glitching for long enough might corrupt the flash, causing it
to be wiped. This isn't likely because this outcome only seems to happen
during handling of debug commands. The second, more likely reason is
that a debug command gets corrupted and interpreted as an erase command,
or that erasing is the default operation when receiving such a corrupted
command.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=5.20833in,height=\textheight]{res/cc2541_glitch_success.png}
\caption{The CC2541 glitch during debug communication which was
initially thought to be successful. Notice how trace 3 doesn't start
toggling again because the application has been wiped. Trace 1 (yellow):
DCOUPL, trace 2 (light blue): RESET\_N, trace 3 (purple): STATE on the
development board (the pin being toggled), trace 4 (dark blue): Debug
Data. \label{img_cc2541_glitch_success}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{differential-power-analysis}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Differential power
analysis\label{section_cc2541_dpa}}{Differential power analysis}}\label{differential-power-analysis}}

According to Kocher et al., differential power analysis (DPA) is a
``statistical method for analyzing sets of measurements to identify
data-dependent correlation'', and involves splitting a set of power
traces into subsets, then computing the difference of the average of
these subsets @kocherIntroductionDifferentialPower2011. In this case,
the initial set of power traces is a set of power traces for a given
time period of the CC2541's power consumption, and there are two
subsets: traces where CRP is disabled and traces where CRP is enabled.
After applying glitches throughout offsets covering all of the potential
critical sections as described in section
\ref{section_cc2541_glitch_attempts}, DPA was applied in an effort to
reduce the search space, thus focusing glitch attempts on a more likely
critical section. Looking for differences between the averages of these
two sets could help identify a critical section for a crowbar glitch; a
pattern being different in one subset when compared to the other could
indicate a glitch-able branch related to CRP checking or handling of CRP
data.

\hypertarget{interfacing-with-the-ds1074z-oscilloscope}{%
\subsubsection{Interfacing with the DS1074Z
oscilloscope}\label{interfacing-with-the-ds1074z-oscilloscope}}

In order to record accurate power traces and average them, it was
necessary to record the points on the trace directly from the
oscilloscope, the Rigol DS1074Z Plus, to the general purpose computer
for data processing. After experiencing issues with a variety of Python
USB interfaces for Rigol oscilloscopes, success at transferring traces
over USB was found in the PyVisa interface class at the website
\emph{Rocking Wombat} @riesterDS1074ZUndPyVisa, which has also been
adapted for the purposes of this project @riesterDS1074ZInterfaceClass.

For a single trace of 3 million points to transfer over USB took around
18 minutes. 3 million points were needed for the time period captured
for analysis, because the sample rate needed to be \(250MSa/s\) to
capture the details of a CPU running at \(32MHz\). DPA requires,
ideally, thousands of traces for each subset being compared, in order to
average the constituent traces without removing important features from
the average trace, especially when there is jitter between each trace. A
thousand traces would therefore take 300 hours to capture, which makes
accurate DPA prohibitively time-expensive for this particular
oscilloscope.

\hypertarget{results}{%
\subsubsection{Results}\label{results}}

The results of the DPA were inconclusive; due to time constraints only
149 traces were recorded for during and after reset, and 1,246 for cold
boot (both counts include CRP disabled and enabled). Graphs displaying
the difference between CRP disabled and enabled are shown for during
reset and after---when processing debug commands---in figure
\ref{img_cc2541_reset_comparison} and during power on in figure
\ref{img_cc2541_coldboot_comparison}. The desired outcome of DPA is for
there to be one or a few prominent peaks, but there are many
similarly-sized peaks in most places on both graphs. This is due to a
combination of factors, which couldn't be explored and eliminated due to
time constraints:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Time period of the trace recording: while the cold boot recordings
  were shorter than the reset recordings (accounting for the increased
  number of traces) because they focused on a section of initialisation
  activity about \(0.8ms\) long, it is still a long period of time and
  clock cycles aren't clearly visible on the graph yet.
\item
  Too few recordings: for cold boot and reset recordings, less than 1000
  traces were recorded for each CRP setting. Peaks on the difference
  trace for cold boot are more prominent than for reset, and even then,
  it indicates very little.
\item
  It is possible there is no difference between CRP disabled and CRP
  enabled activity.
\end{itemize}

The next steps would have started with reducing the trace capture period
for the reset to purely the debug communication section (starting at
about \(7ms\) in figure \ref{img_cc2541_reset_comparison}), skipping the
flat line where RESET\_N is low and allowing for more traces to be
recorded in the same amount of time. The glitch which causes a flash
erase, found in section \ref{section_cc2541_glitch_attempts}, encourages
deeper exploration of the debug communication time period of the voltage
traces. Following on from that, recording more of both cold boot and
debug communication traces would help eliminate more of the
aforementioned limitations.

\begin{figure}
  \begin{center}
      \input{res/reset_comparison.pgf}
  \end{center}
  \caption{DPA traces of CC2541 during and after reset. Blue trace (top): a single example of CRP disabled, orange trace (middle): a single example of CRP enabled, green trace (bottom): difference between the averages of CRP disabled and enabled traces, multiplied by 15.\label{img_cc2541_reset_comparison}}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}
  \begin{center}
      \input{res/coldboot_comparison.pgf}
  \end{center}
  \caption{DPA traces of CC2541 after power on. Blue trace (top): a single example of CRP disabled, orange trace (middle): a single example of CRP enabled, green trace (bottom): difference between the averages of CRP disabled and enabled traces, multiplied by 15.\label{img_cc2541_coldboot_comparison}}
\end{figure}

\hypertarget{areas-of-difficulty}{%
\subsection{Areas of difficulty}\label{areas-of-difficulty}}

A number of time-consuming areas of difficulty presented themselves
during this project, but many were specific to the analysis of the
CC2541. The following were rectified before conclusions were drawn in
any of the previous sections.

During initial analysis, removing the decoupling capacitor was seen as
an optional step, which it can be if a voltage glitch is found without
needing to study voltage traces more deeply. The problem with this was
that removing the decoupling capacitor was postponed until it was
forgotten, and the first traces recorded for differential power analysis
were featureless due to the capacitor's damping effect. Many steps had
to be repeated after removing this capacitor, and its removal made power
analysis much easier, demonstrated in figure
\ref{img_cc2541_cap_comparison}.

Removal of the original wire soldered to DCOUPL and then its decoupling
capacitor put too much strain and heat onto the solder pad used, which
consequently lifted off the PCB. The jumper wire is now soldered to a
much smaller and less disposable contact: the DCOUPL leg on the side of
the chip itself. There is no backup for this, but at least the original
decision to solder onto the PCB rather than directly onto the pin left a
fallback for when the pad came off.

A lot of time was spent trying to glitch some kind of bootloader, which
the CC2541 didn't have, just like the nRF52832. It would have been a
better idea to reason about causing a CRP bypass by targeting a transfer
of CRP data, as done for the nRF52832, because there wasn't likely to be
any logic executed by the CPU which could be glitched to cause a CRP
bypass, because there was no bootloader embedded on the device.

For the majority of the time spent applying glitches to the CC2541, the
glitch width was far too high and was constantly causing either a reset
or a full CPU failure until the next reset. This was caused by an
initial misunderstanding of how long the glitch was, and then mistaking
a glitch-induced reset for a successful glitch, at which point the
glitch width stopped being re-evaluated as an independent variable.

After seeing that every \texttt{cc-tool} command causes a reset before
and after the CC2541 handles the debug operations, much time was spent
on removing these resets, under the incorrect assumption that they were
optional. This was, of course, not true and removing the resets and
re-compiling \texttt{cc-tool} caused complete failure of debug
communication. The user guide makes it clear that putting the CC2541
into debug mode requires RESET\_N to be held low while applying two
falling edge transitions on the Debug Clock pin, but \texttt{cc-tool}
was stubbornly modified nevertheless.

Differential power analysis is very difficult to carry out using the
oscilloscope used throughout this project, the Rigol DS1074Z Plus. DPA
requires, ideally, thousands of recordings of power traces, so that
averaging them doesn't completely remove any features from the resulting
traces. The DS1074Z oscilloscope is slow at transferring points from
power traces over USB, resulting in at least a few minutes to transfer a
single trace of 3 million points, which makes DPA prohibitively
time-expensive.

All of these time-consuming tasks and mistakes were learning experiences
and now it is much easier to recognise various patterns in oscilloscope
traces, use a much more rigorous methodology and avoid systematic error.

\hypertarget{observations-1}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Observations\label{section_cc2541_observations}}{Observations}}\label{observations-1}}

Due to the lack of successful CRP bypass with a crowbar glitch, there
are a number of questions still unanswered. It is clear that there is no
boot ROM, containing an embedded bootloader, present on the CC2541, much
like the nRF52832. This is evident, not only by the lack of mention in
the data sheet and user guide, but the lack of any obvious branching in
simple power analysis, when comparing between voltage traces of CRP
enabled and CRP disabled activity.

However, a crowbar glitch can be successfully applied to the nRF52832,
so why is the CC2541 not susceptible to the same kind of attack? It is
possible that there is no easily target-able memory copy of CRP
data---unlike the nRF52832---or that the CPU core has nothing to do with
the CRP data, although this is unlikely, considering the fact that CRP
data must still be mapped into addressable memory to be enabled or
disabled and the debug interface communicates with the CPU core. After
seeing that some glitch attempts made in section
\ref{section_cc2541_glitch_attempts} cause flash to be completely
erased, it is also possible that there is some kind of tamper-proofing
for unexpected activity around protected memory, which wipes all flash
memory.

It would be arrogant to conclude that a crowbar glitch on DCOUPL cannot
cause a CRP bypass on the CC2541, but it is very unlikely, considering
the number of offsets at which a glitch has been applied. There are
other types of attacks that can be attempted in search of a CRP bypass
vulnerability. Crowbar voltage glitches are only one type of voltage
glitching, and slight overvolting or undervolting could also be
attempted, not just on DCOUPL but VDD too. An example of a research
could be executed quickly is to check whether Goodspeed's reported RAM
vulnerability of CC2430 @goodspeedExtractingKeysSecond is still present
on newer chips in the same family, such as the CC2541. Another area of
research might be the extraction of secrets through power analysis of
DCOUPL while the AES encryption and decryption core on the CC2541 is
being used.

\hypertarget{ease-of-use-of-voltage-glitching-hardware}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{Ease of use of voltage glitching
hardware\label{section_ease_of_use}}{Ease of use of voltage glitching hardware}}\label{ease-of-use-of-voltage-glitching-hardware}}

When it comes to the accessibility of voltage glitching, two factors
need to be considered: ease of use of equipment and cost of equipment.
This section compares the Pico Debug'n'Dump @rothPicoDebugDump, GIAnT
@oswaldGiantrevBGIAnTFault and PocketGlitcher
@limitedresultsPocketGlitcher2021, based on those two factors.

The Pico Debug'n'Dump, introduced in section
\ref{section_nrf52832_debugndump}, is available as a kit---which must be
soldered together by the user---costing \$25. After shipping and buying
the not-included Raspberry Pi Pico, its effective cost is just under
£30, making it the cheapest device of the three. It is also very easy to
use, due to extensive documentation and simple APIs which are familiar
to users who have worked with other Raspberry Pi products.

The FPGA-based board constructed for use with GIAnT software, introduced
in section \ref{section_nrf52832_giant}, is based on the ZTEX USB-FPGA
Module 2.04, which costs €129 before designing and attaching custom
circuits for the desired applications. This easily makes it more
expensive than the other two devices. FPGA configuration is also
typically more complicated and most people have less experience with it,
making setup of the device much more specialised and difficult. Its more
complex, free-form nature also makes it versatile; a board designed for
GIAnT can be configured for a wider variety of applications. Using an
FPGA rather than a CPU also allows the device to be much more accurate
with timing for real-time applications, such as voltage glitching.

The PocketGlitcher consists of a PocketBeagle @BeagleBoardOrgPocket and
adapter board, which has already been designed but requires ordering of
parts and assembly. Together, these components would cost just below
£50. At the time of writing, I do not have personal experience with this
kit, but it is similar to the Pico Debug'n'Dump in hardware and
implementation, with fewer pins than a GIAnT board, so can be considered
to have similar ease of use and setup as the Pico Debug'n'Dump.

While the Pico Debug'n'Dump and PocketGlitcher do not have such
deterministic and fine-grained timing as FPGA-based boards used with
GIAnT, this report has shown that they do still work for crowbar voltage
glitching, with the Debug'n'Dump being used successfully to bypass the
CRP of an nRF52832 within minutes. The low cost and ease of use
definitely make the Debug'n'Dump the best choice of the three for
someone with little experience of voltage glitching and hardware, as
long as its target is known to be vulnerable to a CRP bypass with a
voltage glitch and the only type of glitch needed is a crowbar glitch
(e.g.~nRF52). For exploration of targets without known voltage glitch
vulnerabilities, GIAnT is the better choice due to its ability to
generate many different glitches and its timing accuracy.

\hypertarget{suggested-improvements-to-ease-of-applying-crowbar-attacks}{%
\subsection{Suggested improvements to ease of applying crowbar
attacks}\label{suggested-improvements-to-ease-of-applying-crowbar-attacks}}

While the Debug'n'Dump makes the execution of crowbar attacks easier and
cheaper for a user who might wish to repurpose or reverse-engineer
consumer hardware, below are suggestions for increasing that ease of
use.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Production-ready, pre-built voltage glitch generators: while soldering
  is still often needed to attach wires to the target device, soldering
  a voltage glitch generator kit is time-consuming. If the Debug'n'Dump
  were available pre-built, this would lower the barrier to entry.
\item
  Reduction of the need to debug each device: there are many components
  involved in voltage glitch campaigns, such as the debugging adapter,
  glitch generator, target and all the software needed to interface with
  them. There are multiple factors that assure a user that they won't
  need to spend long debugging any of those components.

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Comprehensive user guides: so far, most resources surrounding
    voltage glitching are demonstrative, rather than how-to guides.
    Producing guides on how to use a pre-built glitch generator with
    various targets would reduce the margin of error for the user.
  \item
    Ready-to-use, purpose-built software: to prevent the need to own an
    expensive oscilloscope, the software for the glitch generator
    hardware should be written in a way which ensures that, if the user
    has followed the guide properly, the software will do the rest
    (i.e.~glitch at conservatively early offsets to prevent the need for
    manually configuring offsets).
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Using these suggestions should make voltage glitching kits more
accessible to consumers. For security researchers and those who wish to
tinker with newer hardware, custom solutions are still relevant and can
be used to inform the designs of purpose-built glitching kits.

\hypertarget{evaluation}{%
\section{Evaluation}\label{evaluation}}

\hypertarget{comparing-outcomes-to-success-criteria}{%
\subsection{Comparing outcomes to success
criteria}\label{comparing-outcomes-to-success-criteria}}

The crowbar attack on nRF52 microcontrollers shown by LimitedResults
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 and Roth
@rothHowAppleAirTags2021 was successfully repeated for the nRF52832 on a
cheaply available development board using both the Pico Debug'n'Dump and
GIAnT.

This project has shown that neither the CC2541, nor the family of SoCs
of which it is a member, are susceptible to crowbar voltage glitches to
bypass CRP without erasing the flash memory. In addition, I have learned
many new skills throughout:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Using an oscilloscope for both simple power analysis and voltage trace
  extraction over USB.
\item
  Deeper understanding of how SoCs and microcontrollers work and their
  architectures, especially for the nRF52 and CC253x/4x product
  families.
\item
  Practical experience of voltage glitching using FPGA-based solutions
  and less real-time microcontroller-based solutions.
\item
  Using all of the software tooling required for the above devices.
\end{itemize}

Methods for making crowbar attacks and other voltage glitches easier
have also been outlined in section \ref{section_ease_of_use}. Generally,
those methods involve turning a voltage glitching kit into a
production-ready, pre-built device.

\hypertarget{future-work}{%
\subsection{Future work}\label{future-work}}

If there were more time for this project, it would have extended to
include the following work:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Using a faster oscilloscope to collect more traces in order to produce
  more accurate DPA results on the CC2541.
\item
  Building on the knowledge gained about how the CC2541 works to attempt
  to glitch VDD on the CC2541, undervolting or overvolting---not using a
  crowbar attack---to set the debug lock bit.
\item
  Checking whether the CC2541 has the same vulnerability where the RAM
  isn't erased with the flash, as demonstrated by Goodspeed for the
  CC2430 @goodspeedExtractingKeysSecond.
\item
  Improving the ease of use of voltage glitching by refactoring GIAnT
  into a Python package and adding to the currently sparse
  documentation.
\end{itemize}

Future work also mentioned in sections \ref{section_cc2541_dpa} and
\ref{section_cc2541_observations} includes reducing the trace capture
period to only capture debug communication, applying different types of
voltage glitch to the CC2541, researching whether a particular RAM
vulnerability exists on chips as new as the CC2541
@goodspeedExtractingKeysSecond and the extraction of secrets through
power analysis of the CC2541.

\hypertarget{conclusion}{%
\subsection{Conclusion}\label{conclusion}}

This report has demonstrated that the work carried out by LimitedResults
@limitedresultsNRF52DebugResurrection2020 and Roth
@rothHowAppleAirTags2021 on nRF52 microcontrollers can be repeated with
similar results on the nRF52832 using both the Pico Debug'n'Dump and
GIAnT. It has been re-affirmed that the code readout protection of the
nRF52832 can be bypassed using a crowbar voltage glitch. Aside from the
issue encountered with the Debug'n'Dump arriving with a resistor of the
incorrect specification, the Debug'n'Dump was a far easier and simpler
tool to use in the context of applying a crowbar voltage glitch. An
evaluation of ease of use has also been carried out, concluding that the
Debug'n'Dump is more accessible than GIAnT when an attacker only wishes
to carry out a crowbar glitch, but GIAnT has a versatility better suited
to exploratory research into various implementation attacks on
microcontrollers. Improvements to voltage glitching hardware and
software have been suggested, and point to making glitching hardware
more production-ready: pre-built, with extensive documentation.

Research into and glitch attempts on the CC2541 with the aim of
bypassing its CRP have also been carried out. After finding a reliable
glitch width for faulting applications and applying glitches of this
width across a wide range of offsets, it has been concluded that the
possibility of bypassing CRP with a crowbar glitch on the CC2541 is
unlikely. A number of reasons why the CC2541 isn't susceptible to this
kind of attack have also been proposed, citing the lack of boot ROM and
corresponding embedded bootloader, alongside the possibility that its
CRP data isn't handled directly by the CPU in a way which can easily be
glitched.

Microcontrollers more likely to be vulnerable to this kind of attack
include those which have bootloaders embedded in the device in boot ROM
(such as LPC176x/5x @UM10360LPC176x5x2016), which are always run before
any application, regardless of the application.

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section{References}\label{references}}

\vspace{0.5cm}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\begin{CSLReferences}{0}{0}
\end{CSLReferences}

\appendix

\hypertarget{cc-tool-logs}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\texttt{cc-tool}
logs}{cc-tool logs}}\label{cc-tool-logs}}

\hypertarget{crp-enabled}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{CRP
enabled\label{appendix_crp_enabled}}{CRP enabled}}\label{crp-enabled}}

\begin{verbatim}
[19.04 13:20:15:73697] main, cc-tool 0.26
[19.04 13:20:15:73697] main, command line: cc-tool -i --log 
[19.04 13:20:15:73718] usb, open device, VID: 0451h, PID: 16A2h
[19.04 13:20:15:73718] usb, set configuration 1
[19.04 13:20:15:73720] usb, claim interface 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73723] usb, get string descriptor 2, data: CC Debugger
[19.04 13:20:15:73723] programmer, request device state
[19.04 13:20:15:73723] usb, control read, request_type: C0h, request: C0h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 8
[19.04 13:20:15:73725] usb, control read, data: 40 25 CC 05 44 00 01 00
[19.04 13:20:15:73725] device, name: CC Debugger, ID: 0100, version: 05CCh, revision: 0044h
[19.04 13:20:15:73725] programmer, set debug interface speed 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73726] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: CFh, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73727] programmer, connect target
[19.04 13:20:15:73727] programmer, enter debug mode
[19.04 13:20:15:73727] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C5h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73729] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C8h, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 48
[19.04 13:20:15:73729] usb, control write, data: 43 43 32 35 34 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 44 49 44 3A 20 30 31 30 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
[19.04 13:20:15:73733] programmer, reset target, debug mode: 1
[19.04 13:20:15:73734] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C9h, value: 0000h, index: 0001h, count: 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73745] programmer, read debug status
[19.04 13:20:15:73745] usb, bulk write, count: 2, data: 1F 34
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 26
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, debug status, 26h
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, target is locked
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] main, start task processing
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, check if unit locked
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, read debug status
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] usb, bulk write, count: 2, data: 1F 34
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 26
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, debug status, 26h
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] main, finish task processing
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] programmer, reset target, debug mode: 0
[19.04 13:20:15:73746] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C9h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 0
\end{verbatim}

\hypertarget{crp-disabled}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{CRP
disabled\label{appendix_crp_disabled}}{CRP disabled}}\label{crp-disabled}}

\begin{verbatim}
[19.04 13:18:09:47648] main, cc-tool 0.26
[19.04 13:18:09:47648] main, command line: cc-tool -i --log 
[19.04 13:18:09:47669] usb, open device, VID: 0451h, PID: 16A2h
[19.04 13:18:09:47669] usb, set configuration 1
[19.04 13:18:09:47671] usb, claim interface 0
[19.04 13:18:09:47674] usb, get string descriptor 2, data: CC Debugger
[19.04 13:18:09:47674] programmer, request device state
[19.04 13:18:09:47675] usb, control read, request_type: C0h, request: C0h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 8
[19.04 13:18:09:47676] usb, control read, data: 40 25 CC 05 44 00 01 00
[19.04 13:18:09:47676] device, name: CC Debugger, ID: 0100, version: 05CCh, revision: 0044h
[19.04 13:18:09:47677] programmer, set debug interface speed 0
[19.04 13:18:09:47677] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: CFh, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[19.04 13:18:09:47678] programmer, connect target
[19.04 13:18:09:47678] programmer, enter debug mode
[19.04 13:18:09:47678] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C5h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[19.04 13:18:09:47680] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C8h, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 48
[19.04 13:18:09:47680] usb, control write, data: 43 43 32 35 34 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 44 49 44 3A 20 30 31 30 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
[19.04 13:18:09:47685] programmer, reset target, debug mode: 1
[19.04 13:18:09:47685] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C9h, value: 0000h, index: 0001h, count: 0
[19.04 13:18:09:47696] programmer, read debug status
[19.04 13:18:09:47696] usb, bulk write, count: 2, data: 1F 34
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 22
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] programmer, debug status, 22h
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] programmer, write debug config, 22h
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] usb, bulk write, count: 3, data: 4C 1D 22
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] programmer, read xdata memory at 6276h, count: 2
[19.04 13:18:09:47697] usb, bulk write, count: 47, data: 40 55 00 72 56 E5 92 BE 57 75 92 00 74 56 E5 83 76 56 E5 82 BE 57 90 62 76 4E 55 E0 5E 55 A3 4F 55 E0 5E 55 A3 D4 57 90 C2 57 75 92 90 56 74
[19.04 13:18:09:47700] usb, bulk read, count 2: data: 4C 07
[19.04 13:18:09:47700] programmer, read xdata memory, data: 4C 07
[19.04 13:18:09:47701] programmer, read xdata memory at 6249h, count: 1
[19.04 13:18:09:47701] usb, bulk write, count: 41, data: 40 55 00 72 56 E5 92 BE 57 75 92 00 74 56 E5 83 76 56 E5 82 BE 57 90 62 49 4F 55 E0 5E 55 A3 D4 57 90 C2 57 75 92 90 56 74
[19.04 13:18:09:47704] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 22
[19.04 13:18:09:47704] programmer, read xdata memory, data: 22
[19.04 13:18:09:47704] programmer, read xdata memory at 624Ah, count: 1
[19.04 13:18:09:47704] usb, bulk write, count: 41, data: 40 55 00 72 56 E5 92 BE 57 75 92 00 74 56 E5 83 76 56 E5 82 BE 57 90 62 4A 4F 55 E0 5E 55 A3 D4 57 90 C2 57 75 92 90 56 74
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 8D
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] programmer, read xdata memory, data: 8D
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] target, name: CC2540, chip ID: 8Dh, rev. 22h, flash: 256, ram: 8, flags: 07h
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] main, start task processing
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] programmer, check if unit locked
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] programmer, read debug status
[19.04 13:18:09:47707] usb, bulk write, count: 2, data: 1F 34
[19.04 13:18:09:47709] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 22
[19.04 13:18:09:47709] programmer, debug status, 22h
[19.04 13:18:09:47709] programmer, read info page
[19.04 13:18:09:47709] programmer, read xdata memory at 7800h, count: 128
[THE INFO PAGE IS READ, HEX DUMP REMOVED FROM LOG]
[19.04 13:18:10:48681] main, finish task processing
[19.04 13:18:10:48681] programmer, reset target, debug mode: 0
[19.04 13:18:10:48681] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C9h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 0
\end{verbatim}

\hypertarget{corrupted-debug-status}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Corrupted debug
status\label{appendix_corrupted_debug_status}}{Corrupted debug status}}\label{corrupted-debug-status}}

\begin{verbatim}
Command '['cc-tool', '-i', '--log']' returned non-zero exit status 1.
[21.02 13:29:34:99664] main, cc-tool 0.26
[21.02 13:29:34:99664] main, command line: cc-tool -i --log 
[21.02 13:29:34:99672] usb, open device, VID: 0451h, PID: 16A2h
[21.02 13:29:34:99672] usb, set configuration 1
[21.02 13:29:34:99680] usb, claim interface 0
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] usb, get string descriptor 2, data: CC Debugger
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] programmer, request device state
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] usb, control read, request_type: C0h, request: C0h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 8
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] usb, control read, data: 40 25 CC 05 44 00 01 00
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] device, name: CC Debugger, ID: 0100, version: 05CCh, revision: 0044h
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] programmer, set debug interface speed 0
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: CFh, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] programmer, connect target
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] programmer, enter debug mode
[21.02 13:29:34:99682] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C5h, value: 0000h, index: 0000h, count: 0
[21.02 13:29:34:99683] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C8h, value: 0001h, index: 0000h, count: 48
[21.02 13:29:34:99683] usb, control write, data: 43 43 32 35 34 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 44 49 44 3A 20 30 31 30 30 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
[21.02 13:29:34:99684] programmer, reset target, debug mode: 1
[21.02 13:29:34:99684] usb, control write, request_type: 40h, request: C9h, value: 0000h, index: 0001h, count: 0
[21.02 13:29:34:99694] programmer, read debug status
[21.02 13:29:34:99694] usb, bulk write, count: 2, data: 1F 34
[21.02 13:29:34:99695] usb, bulk read, count 1: data: 00
[21.02 13:29:34:99695] programmer, debug status, 00h
[21.02 13:29:34:99695] programmer, halt failed
\end{verbatim}
